- [Instructor] Okay so let's see what we are going
to implement as part of this demo.
We click on the login hyperlink
enter the credentials, and when we reach the home page
we'll click on order history,
and we'll get these products displayed,
which is basically the order history for the customer.
So let's start.
Now let us take a look at this Java servlet page
tag library demo.
The first of them we are going to see the code module
and then we'll see the FMT module.
So for that, we need a servlet class right now
for the JSTL, so let's go ahead,
and what we are going to do is,
we are going to show the order history now.
So the order history is going to be completely shown
on the page using JSDL.
So my order history servlet is ready,
I already have a template of it,
which extends HHTPServelet, and of course I've annotated it
with the order history URL pattern.
Next step we'll do Add a method in the ApplicationDao class
to get the order details for the user.
So let's go ahead,
and this is my order details method,
which is getOrder, on line 131,
it is going to return here a list of orders,
the way we have it encapsulating
all the information in objects,
similarly the orders also
are going to be putting an order object,
and for all those orders, we are going to create a list.
So, that's the return of this method.
Okay, so let's get started with this,
on line number 134, let's quickly get a connection first.
Next, we'll have to write the select query for the orders.
So, let's write that query,
select * from, the table in this case
is this time the orders table,
and where the user_name is question mark.
Let's put a semicolon there.
Once we do that let's get the prepare statement, as usual,
so, I'm going to fetch the PreparedStatement API,
on the connection object, and pass that sql query.
And let me set the parameter for user_name
so I'm going to say statement.setString
parameterIndex number one, there's only one index.
So, user_name, that's coming in as the method parameter.
Once we do this, we're going to execute this query,
get the resultset and return the Orders Info,
so that's what it is going to be,
and what are we going to do?
We are going to basically execute that statement,
executeQuery API, which will return me the ResultSetObject.
Let's take it in the ResultSet variable reference,
and let's now go ahead and iterate the result set,
so that'll be while(set.next())
and before we do anything in the loop,
let's quickly go ahead up there,
and on line number 132,
let's create an order reference first
so that we start storing
all the details in this order object,
and let's also create the list of such orders.
Equal to new ArrayList.
Good, so now let's come down,
and start filling in all the values of that ResultSet rule
to the list of orders, right?
So let me come inside and say order,
and instantiate this first,
that will be order.
And then it will be order.setOrderId,
let's say, and it's going to come from the result set
in the form of an int.
so I'm going to say getInt,
and feed the column name of order_id.
Similarly, I'm going to say order.set, the product name,
which is this, and that will come as a string,
which is the column for product name.
The next one will be order dot set the product image path,
so we're going to show the order product name,
we're going to show the order product image as well on the JSP.
For this we need all these values,
so I'm going to say
set.getString,
and the column name for image is image_path.
Then let's set the order date,
so that will be order.setOrderDate,
which is going to take a date parameter.
So what we're going to do is we are going to convert it
to the Java.util.date right away,
so I'm going to say this will be new Date,
and to that I'm going to feed set.getDate,
specify the column name,
which is order_date, and then on that
you can chain the getTime API.
So that's how you'll convert it to Java.util.date.
Okay, and then the last one that we need to set
is the user name, so I'm going to say order.setUsername
set.getString, and feed the column name for user_name,
which is this.
Okay.
So once we've done this, we just need
to put this order object in that list of orders.
So I'm going to say orders.add, and I'll put that order object.
Once done, we just have to return this
and tie our list of orders back to the calling method,
so I'm going to go right down, on line number 169,
and I'm going to say return orders.
Okay.
So that's what this is, so we have added the method
in the application down, and let's go to the next step.
Yeah, of course, we left out an out call
that ApplicationDao method from this servlet class
and then we'll set all the data in the request call,
and forward the control to the JSP, so let's come back
on Eclipse, that's the history servlet class.
The first step is we, of course,
need to retrieve the username from the session,
so I'm going to say string username,
request.getSession,
and then .getAttribute,
and feed the name of the attribute.
So of course, this is going to return me something
of the object type, so casting is necessary.
Okay, now let's go in and create an instance
of the ApplicationDao, so I'm going to say
new ApplicationDao, and then,
I'll call the method of getOrders.
So getOrders, which demands the username as an argument,
okay, and this will return something of the list parameter,
so list of orders, get a reference, and there we go.
Of course you need to import this order class, right.
And once we get there, then we just have to set that
in that orders list into the request call,
so on line number 28, I'm just going to say
request.setAttribute, and the key value,
so you can say orders is the key,
and the value will be this orders object.
And once you do that, home.jsp is the place
where we are displaying the order history,
if you want, if you choose,
you can make a separate order history page as well,
but as of now for the demo purposes,
we're just utilizing that home.jsp,
so I'm going to take the request object,
get the request dispatcher on it,
which is this, and then feed the path of the home.jsp,
and then forward this along with the request,
and the response objects.
There we go, so our servlet is ready, the Dao is ready,
the bean is ready, if you look at this order bean,
it's a very simple java bean class,
with all the instance variables,
and of course, the get and setters that we've utilized
in order to encapsulate the order information
for this object oriented design.
Right, so there we are and the rest of the steps
we'll take a look at in the next video.